# CS_340_Journal

__How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?__ _Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two._ __What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future__
* To write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable, the key is to avoid being too specific with methods. This way components can be re-used or abstracted into whatever you need for later. This helps you avoid the pitfall of changing login that breaks everything because it only works a certain way under certain overly specific conditions.
* Using comments or self commenting code is also a great way to ensure that people reading your code wont be lost from abstract variable, method, or class names.
* The way that I wrote the CRUD_Python_Module lends itself very well to being used on other connections or even other databases. As long as its using MongoDB, the CRUD Module just needs to have a few minor changes and its ready for a new use-case!

__How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist?__ _Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested._ __How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?__
* To approach a problem like a computer scientist, all yo need to do is break it down into as many small achievable components as you can. The difficulty when working on a project that seems too big is knowing what to do next. computer scientists are extremely tallented at overcoming this obstacly by simply viewing a big task as several smaller ones that are much more achievable.
* My approach to this project differed becasue I was new at intervacing with MongoDB, so there was a lot of learning and trial-and-error. I would apply what i learned from this project to future projects using similar technologies so that i dont have to endure that debugging phase for quite as long next time. I will also have this repo to fall back on as a boilerplate for future similar projects as well. 

__What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?__
* If were being reductive, computer scientists solve problems. Since the field is so large and diverse, its hard to narrow it down further than that. Computer scientists are faced with tasks like creating new products, fixing old ones, or maintaining current ones. Typically these projects serve a specific function or rrequest for a business or individual. In this case it was to help visualize and filter documents from a database in a way that non-technical users can interact with it and digest it. I did this by creating a CRUD API to connect and return items from the database, and a frontend Dash app to interact and visualize that information. Now employees at Grazioso Salvare can filter animals in their database by various categories and see some statistics on them without having to know Mongo CLI commands.
